3.1 PROPOSED SYSTEM 
 This is a cloud based Integrated software for complete Health Club management with features 
like Membership Management, Marketing Management, Reservations Management, 
Automatic Attendance Tracking, Event Management, virtual trainer and helpdesk, Class 
Management and auto class scheduling. Virtual training is enabled using a pre-trained chatbot 
which can handle all day today activities with clients and will guide users through different 
workouts and also provide a suitable diet chart to be followed as per the selected fitness goal. 
The chatbot will also present different exercise routines based on the intensity level the user 
chooses and is comfortable with. Virtual training and help desk is a major feature of this 
application. This is a pre trained chatbot/voice bot which can handle all day today enquiries 
and can give guidance for users. Bot will assist users to create personalized meal plans based 
on their food preferences, budget, and schedule. Assess diet and nutritional goals with the help 
of an online calorie calculator. Chatbot will create personalised meal plan for each user in 
seconds. People joining the gym often face the issue of being unacquainted with the types of 
equipment and various exercises they should be doing to achieve the desired goal. Be it losing 
fat, building muscle or improving endurance, every fitness goal requires a different set of 
workout plan and nutrition diet to be followed. The chatbot can guide users through different 
workouts and also provide a suitable diet chart to be followed as per the selected fitness goal. 
The chatbot can also present different exercise routines based on the intensity level the user 
chooses and is comfortable with. The user can also choose from different exercise routines 
based on different target areas like arms, legs, etc. Images, gifs, and videos can also be used in 
the chatbot conversation to clearly illustrate and explain the exercises to the users. Virtual 
helpdesk will help to generate more leads by collecting health club visitors’ emails or phone 
numbers. All general enquiries related to all branches is also possible through this system. Can 
book and enquire about available slots for special activities like pool, yoga etc. More 
productivity, more guest satisfaction, more direct sales are the key features.  Revenue streams 
are automatic and reliable with recurring payments set up for all fitness membership dues. 
Members can log in to check their dues and can select option to make payment using online. 
Such process removes manual intervention and reduces errors of fee collection management. 
Members can view historical fee payments and can download receipts whenever required. With 
the automation module, admin can communicate special offers, class schedules, payment 
confirmations, contract due dates, and can automate the sign-up process via the client portal for 
more member convenience. Reception desk will have a club kiosk capable of handling club 
membership management and registration. A great solution for clubs with 24/7 access controls 
for client acquisition at any time with the help of virtual assistant. Forecasting reports enable 
salespeople to get better visibility over their pipelines, qualify leads more accurately, and see 
how close they are to hitting their targets. Sales managers can use reports to motivate and 
manage their people. 
Automatic Attendance Tracking system works with both attendance management using face 
recognition and biometric system. This system marks attendance from multiple locations with 
a cloud stored database. Integrate biometrics and face identification attendance system with 
software and control access of members. Can maximize staff efficiency instead of arranging 
one appointment after another with the gym members and trainers. At the same time empower 
members to book their own appointments at fingertips and the trainers to manage their 
schedules with Book Appointment Feature. Manage the staff operations in the health club with 
ease. Dynamic employee scheduling, commission programs, and notifications for trainers and 
class instructors to help keep employees organized
